So signals are a particular
construct within bash, so
you can send basically a programme
of signal to do something, right?
So you can have a programme that's
running and it takes 10 minutes to run.
And let's say that programme needs to end
early, you can send it a signal that hey
programme, me the user,
I'm asking you to end early.
Can you handle that?
So it doesn't force
the program to do anything.
It just tells the program,
here's a signal of my intent,
it's up to you to do something about it.
Like a good example of that would
be if someone calls you right,
that's a signal for
them to want to talk to you but
you the program don't have
to answer the call, right?
That's kinda what signals are as
you're calling the program,
it's up to the program how
it wants to answer that.
Just kind of like best practices
of like how to handle signal so
relatively most programs will handle
signals in a relatively consistent way.
But again, it's up to
the programme to implement signals.
Some of them just choose not to.
So the first one that you will use all
the time perhaps the most is SIGINT.
So, SIG, signal, INT, interrupt.
So you're telling it,
the programme please interrupt.
A lot of times,
that just means stop running.
So if I do for example,
if I go back to the terminal here.
If I do tail and I'm gonna do -f,
which means continue to tail and
I do bash_history like this, history.
Notice this program is still running.
What tail-f does is like,
watch this file and if anything gets new,
it gets added to it.
Show me those things as
they're being added, right?
It's anticipating that
things will be added to it.
But let's say I'm done now and
I want the program to end.
If I don't do anything right now,
it's just gonna keep running forever,
right cuz that's what that -f does.
So in order for me to get the program
to stop, I have to send it as SIGINT,
as SIG interrupt.
So if I hit Ctrl and C, it says,
please stop and then have like,
the tail-f is waiting for that signal and
once it catches that SIGINT,
it's like cool, I'm gonna stop and
that's when it stops right there.
So you'll see this.
What is that, it's not a circumflex.
That's what it's called in language.
I can't remember the name of
that character right now.
Anyway, so you'll see this character right
here if you'd like to shift six character
right there.
You'll see that a lot that
represents control, right?
So, when I did this,
you see that the circumflex and
C, that is me pressing Ctrl+C.
So just be aware that if you see that,
in fact,
if you're on a Mac keyboard,
that's what it looks like.
So just be aware of that.
Okay.
Yeah, here's another one of my
favorite programs is called yes.
So, a lot of these programs like in
the early days were interactive and
you had to answer yes to
a bunch of questions.
Some computer scientists got
real sick of answering yes, so
he wrote a program called Yes.
And all it does is spam the character
why and indefinitely and
it just answers yes to every
question that you ask it.
But it will do that
infinitely until you stop it.
So I have to Ctrl+C and then it stops.
Okay.
So, that's SIGINT.
That's a good one to know.
There's another one called SIGQUIT.
So interrupt is a like a less powerful,
it's more it's more like hey,
stop doing what you're doing but SIGQUIT's
like, shut it down, I'm done with you.
In fact, if I'd just hit Ctrl+D right now,
don't, but if you did,
well, I'll just show you.
It'll actually end my
terminal sessions like,
you told me to quit, I'm quitting right?
So now this is actually done
I can't even restart this, so
I have to reopen my shell now.
Just close that old one.
That's what SIGQUIT is, it's a strong
signal, it's like quit the entire program.
So like a good example of this,
if I say Python3 and I get popped into
the Python3 repl, it actually doesn't
respect keyboard interrupts, right?
So it's not going to end it if I tell
it that so you actually have to send
Python three a SIGQUIT, for it to say,
okay, you wanted me to stop so
I hit Ctrl+D and that's how I quit
Python3, the repl for Python.
So let's get to like generally
my progression of things
is I'll try Ctrl+C to see if it stops.
If it doesn't stop, then I'll try
Ctrl+D to see if that makes it stop and
usually one of the two
will quit any program.
So, just keep those in mind.
Try Ctrl+C first if that doesn't work,
then try Ctrl+D.
Okay, for this next one here SIGTERM.
SIGTERM is, I think it's terminate.
But this happens when your computer's
like shutting down, right?
It'll actually send SIGTERMs
to all of your programs and
say like, hey,
we're shutting down everyone,
you get your opportunity right
now to shut your stuff down.
I'm gonna give you a bit of time,
here's your SIGTERM.
And then once you're all done,
then it shuts the entire terminal down.
So you don't send send SIGTERMs typically
through computer sending SIGTERMs to
the various different programs.
You can send SIGTERMs yourself but
that's not what it's meant for.
It's meant to be from the operating
system itself because it's shutting down.
And then everyone's favorite at
the end is SIGKILL which is like,
you're done,
it's program assassination, right?
It gets shut down immediately.
You don't get to clean up,
you don't get any options, it's just done.
All right, so if I look at my programs
now you can see where's the yes,
I had a yes running.
No I don't.
So, I'll show you how to
do this in a second but
I'm gonna start a program
running in the background.
And I'm going to have it just
infinitely go in the background.
All right, so now you can see here,
I have this yes running in the background
which is infinitely spanning why, right?
And it's just running in
the background taking up CPU.
It's not doing anything useful.
So I wanna kill this program.
Now I can give it like a soft SIGINT and
it would totally respect that but
just to show you how to do a SIGKILL
like immediately kill this and
don't clean up after yourself.
And that's like really the big difference
here is things that are sent to SIGTERM,
and SIGQUIT, and SIGINT.
We'll get an opportunity to wrap
things up, write some files out,
clear out the logs,
send out something off to the server.
SIGKILL will not allow it to do that.
So you can use something called kill.
And if I do kill.
And actually I think I might have a,
Yeah, okay.
And then I'm going to give
it this process ID 1465.
So the -9 represents SIGKILL.
And the way you can actually
tell that is you can see
number nine right here is SIGKILL.
So kill-l will show you all the various
different signals that are possible.
And most of these I don't even know what
they do and I never use them like, well,
let's see like SIGPWR or
I guess it's probably power SIGIO SIG
[INAUDIBLE] I don't know some of these I
just don't even know what they do and you
never have to really use them directly.
There's SIGALARM which is like
sound the alarm on the computer.
There's a bunch of these,
but the -9 here says,
send signal number nine,
which is SIGKILL to process 1465,
and we'll get into like the process
stuff here in just a little bit,
but I wanted you to
know what SIGKILL does.
And also I wanted you to know
like what the ejector button is,
which is kill -9 process ID
will just destroy any process.
You can also do, yeah, like this.
You can do -SIGKILL like this.
And I know this just just has one dash but
that's how kill works.
Like I said it's up to every
program to implement flags however
they want to, but
-SIGKILL would have done that as well.
Like if I do 1467 here,
which I know doesn't exist, but
that would have sent SIGKILL to 1467.
And again,
kill -l will show you all of the possible
signals that you can send to programs.